# What is BBS+?
This digital signature was created by Dan **B**oneh, Xavier **B**oyen, and Hovav **S**hacham using the strong Diffie-Hellman encryption technique, and hence the name **BBS** (after their respective surnames). The original signature was modified later to include proof of knowledge, and hence the name BBS+.

Beyond the core properties of a digital signature scheme (DSS), BBS signatures has unique properties such as:
- Selective Disclosure
  - The scheme allows a signer (issuer) to sign multiple messages and produce a single -constant size- output signature. An intermediary (prover) then possessing the messages and the signature can generate a proof whereby they can choose which messages to disclose, while leaking no-information about the un-disclosed messages. The proof itself guarantees the integrity and authenticity of the disclosed messages (e.g. that they were originally signed by the issuer).
- Unlinkable Proof Presentations
  - The proofs generated by the scheme are known as zero-knowledge, proofs-of-knowledge of the signature, meaning a verifying party in receipt of a proof is unable to determine which signature was used to generate the proof, removing a common source of correlation. In general each proof generated is indistinguishable from random even for two proofs generated from the same signature.
- Proof of Possession
  - The proofs generated by the scheme prove to a verifier that the party who generated the proof (prover) was in possession of a signature without revealing it. The scheme also supports binding a presentation header to the generated proof. The presentation header can include arbitrary information such as a cryptographic nonce, an audience/domain identifier to ensure the generated proof can only be used appropriately, including providing a way for a verifier to detect a replay attack, or any other information a protocol may require to be cryptographically tied to a proof.

# notes on [Affinidi's explanation](https://academy.affinidi.com/deciphering-bbs-signatures-e853bbf437bf)
- not bad introduction.
- introduces pedersen commitment
- perdersen has a very vague link back to BBS+ Signatures. I dont see the link...
- I don't get the explanation of BBS+ signatures in the context of VCs.

The BBS+ signature scheme is a DSS that can have 2 distinct parties:
- `signature holder` (owner of the signature)
- `signer` (the entity authenticating that the signature belongs to holder)

Essentially, what happens is that the `signature holder` enters into a `Pedersen commitment` with the signer.

## what is a Pedersen commitment?
A Pedersen commitment is a scheme that allows a sender to commit to a secret value that can be revealed in the future. Until then, the sender transmits a commitment to preserve the secret.

Until the sender chooses, the secret remains private and can be revealed only when the sender displays a necessary parameter that’s agreed as a part of the commitment process. This commitment allows senders to commit to a ton of data in one-go and at the same time, it’s not possible for a hacker to access all of that data until the sender decides to reveal it.

Let’s understand this with a simple example.

Let’s say, Bob creates a secret and sends a commitment of the secret to Alice. Here, the commitment can be a cryptographic value like a hash function or discrete logarithms, and this is stored by Alice. Remember, she doesn’t know Bob’s secret and can’t find out with the commitment value either.

In the future, Bob decides to reveal the secret, and Alice checks this secret against the commitment to verify that Bob hasn’t changed the secret.

Besides Bob and Alice, no one else knows about its existence.

## BBS+ Signatures and Pedersen Commitment
BBS group signatures create the possibility for the signer and the signature holder to be two different entities, like Alice and Bob. The commitment is the connecting aspect, and the contents are blinded until the holder decides to reveal it.

Also, these signatures give complete control to the holder to decide when and what must be revealed, and follow the principles of Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) where the holder can prove the required identity to another entity without having to reveal the identifiable data of the transaction.

# Notes on DIF's [draft](https://identity.foundation/bbs-signature/draft-bbs-signatures.html) of BBS
- https://github.com/decentralized-identity/bbs-signature

Looks like a spec on making your own BBS implementation? eew. I think we need knowledge


# BBS+ Signature Linked Data Proofs
- [repo](https://github.com/w3c-ccg/ldp-bbs2020/)
- [draft](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ldp-bbs2020/)

specification for linked data signature (i think this is pertaining to json-ld) using BBS+ signature algo with BLS12-381 elliptic curve based key pairs.

# more links
- [implementation](https://github.com/mattrglobal/jsonld-signatures-bbs)
- [another implementation](https://github.com/mattrglobal/node-bbs-signatures)
- [another one](https://github.com/mattrglobal/bbs-signatures)